Chapter one: Indroduction

1.1 Background


Hospital management system is a web based computerised system that provides a platform for hospitals,clinics and other health services providing organizaions to manage 
hospital facilities through online medium. It provides online appointment with doctors of representative hospitals and clinics as well as it provides online booking of 
cabins and other facilities which are physically provided by respective hospitals and clinics. It also provides online health care services as well as appoinment for 
home visit can be booked with the help of this platform.


        Hospital management system has a main motive to make routine checkup and interaction with their doctors easier. It is mainly focused to provide the best
 facilities to each and every patients.This web based design will make easier to subscribe the package and further expansion on package will be possible with less 
effort. This project will takeover the general task responsible by receptionist.In this rapidly growing world it is really hard to stand as a business without the 
use of latest technologies. Thus, this project will help the management system to be easier.


        This system can be used by a non-programming/technical personal avoiding the human handled errors.This project can be used by two users
	1. Patients/Normal users
	2. Hospitals and Clinics
	

               Patients/Normal users have the free functionality for registering and making payment for the appointment.These users can only have limited rights to
this system. These users cannot delete or add any offers or publish any official or unofficial funtions linking to organizational administration.
               
               Hospitals and Clinics have the access to control the official package/offers or to add/delete/update information the doctors or the facilties available.
               
     
1.2 Terminalogy

1.3 Statement of Problem
         In this present situation where all the facilities are provided by the electronic means hospital facility should also be in the top most for providing
facilities with less interaction with the  peoples. Patients have to wait for the long procedure in hospital for the appointment and many wishes for having a private
cabin inside hospital but due to the limited options it is a hard job.The most common problem of paper based reservation of appointment and other facilities are:

i.    Hard to find the old datas
ii.   Time cosuming for reservation and appointment 
iii.  Data duplication and Over Reservation

1.3 Objective
        A Computer Based Management system is designed to handle all the primary information required to  




1.4 Application
        Although our project  won't have all the features required to be a good hospital management system,it will still manage to handle most important system
which is taking appointment/reservations. The hospital and clinics will also have access to manage the following features:

i.Patients database management
   It can manage or maintain the patient records and provide discounts and offer for the user who have visited the site.

ii.Cabin and Appointment Availability
   The user can check whether the appointment or other facilties provided by hospital are available or not.

iii. Reservation
   By using it reservation of appointment and other facilties can be done avoiding the overwriting/overbooking.

iv.Search all previous patients data
   Through using this system, admin will be able to search for the previous data of petient.






	chapter-2: LITERATURE REVIEW



